Queries (#3)
temporalio/edu-interacting-with-workflows-typescript: querying-your-workflows/what-are-queries.md

# What Are Queries?

> Since the state of a running Workflow Execution is constantly changing, there may be times where you would want to expose the internal Workflow Execution state to the external world. That is where a Query comes into play. For example, you might want to query the state of your Workflow Execution for:

Reviewer: General Q here: this intro frames Queries as returning *the entire workflow state* (akin to using workflow show on the CLI), as opposed to returning individual variables or other attributes. I'm curious about whether this is intentional and whether our docs frame it the same way. It seems like if we framed it as being more useful to return specific variables, it would be more 1:1 with how we're explaining signals, and it would seem less redundant with just doing workflow show.

Author: Good call out. 

It seems that our doc frames Queries as returning the entire workflow state: https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#query

However, I see that on the learn site, it does talk about returning individual details/other attributes, specifically the subscription details: https://learn.temporal.io/tutorials/go/subscriptions/#add-a-query

Will fix this to include both.

> Since the state of a running Workflow Execution is constantly changing, there may be times where you would want to expose the internal Workflow Execution state to the external world. That is where a Query comes into play. For example, you might want to query the state of your Workflow Execution for:

Author: fixed!

> Since the state of a running Workflow Execution is constantly changing, there may be times where you would want to expose the internal Workflow Execution state to the external world. That is where a Query comes into play. For example, you might want to query the state of your Workflow Execution for:

Author: Good call, added in 'sending-queries' chapter.

> Since the state of a running Workflow Execution is constantly changing, there may be times where you would want to expose the internal Workflow Execution state or individual attributes or details to the external world. That is where a Query comes into play. For example, you might want to query the current state of your Workflow Execution for:

Author: Removed ""Since the state of a running Workflow Execution is constantly changing" and added the other part about queries retrieving state during/after execution

- **Monitoring Progress of Long-Running Workflows**: A Client might want to receive updates on the progress, like the percentage of the task completed.
- **Retrieving Results**: Queries can be used to fetch the results of Activities without waiting for the entire Workflow to complete.

> A Query is a synchronous operation that is used to get the state of a Workflow Execution - the Client waits for a response from the Workflow. Queries are sent form a Temporal Client to a Workflow Execution. Also, note that you can only query a Workflow Execution if a Worker is currently running and listening on the Task Queue on which the Workflow Execution is running.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! Changed

> The Query is identified at both ends by a Query name. The Workflow must have a Query handler that is developed to handle that Query and provide data that represents the state of the Workflow Execution. Queries will return the most recent state of the Workflow Execution. This means that the data will reflect the state of all confirmed Events (an Event is confirmed if the call creating the Event returned a success) that came in just before the Query was sent. If the Event is created while the Query is being the performed, this may not be reflected in the Workflow state the Query is based on.

Author: fixed

> The Query is identified at both ends by a Query name. The Workflow must have a Query handler to process the Query and provide data that represents the requested information. Queries will return the most recent state of the Workflow Execution. This means that the data will reflect the state of all confirmed Events (an Event is confirmed if the call creating the Event returned a success) that came in just before the Query was sent. If the Event is created while the Query is being the performed, this may not be reflected in the Workflow state the Query is based on.

Author: Okay, fixed. I moved the specific implementation details from this chapter to developing-queries chapter.

> Unlike Signals, Queries do not mutate the state of the Workflow Execution or execute any Activities (use an Activity instead). Queries are _read-only_ and cannot contain any blocking code (e.g., Query handling logic cannot schedule Activity Executions).

Author: Added in sending-signals chapter

# What Are Queries?

> There may be times where you would want to expose the internal Workflow Execution state or individual attributes or details to the external world. A Workflow Execution can run for any length of time but has just one opportunity to return data — at the end of its execution. Often, we need to retrieve the state during or even after the execution. That is where a Query comes into play. For example, you might want to query the current state of your Workflow Execution for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There may be times where you would want to expose the internal state of a Workflow Execution, or individual attributes or details to the external world. A Workflow Execution can run for any length of time but has just one opportunity to return data — at the end of its execution. Often, we need to retrieve the state during or even after the execution. That is where a Query comes into play. For example, you might want to query the current state of your Workflow Execution for:
```

- **Monitoring Progress of Long-Running Workflows**: A Client might want to receive updates on the progress, like the percentage of the task completed.
- **Retrieving Results**: Queries can be used to fetch the results of Activities without waiting for the entire Workflow to complete.

> Unlike Signals, Queries do not mutate the state of the Workflow Execution or execute any Activities (use an Activity instead). Queries are _read-only_ and cannot contain any blocking code (e.g., Query handling logic cannot schedule Activity Executions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike Signals, Queries may not mutate the state of the Workflow Execution (e.g., changing the value of variables that may later affect the execution of the Workflow), nor execute any Workflow command (e.g., timers, activities, local activities, child workflows, etc). More over, Queries are _read-only_ and must complete synchronously (i.e., a Query handler may not return a `Promise`).
```
